Okay in this video I'm going to step you
through an example, a working example of
using Spring Boot and Neo4j which is a
graph database. Actually pretty cool
stuff there, the source code for this
example is available on GitHub and you
can go out to springframeworkguru my
little area on GitHub and go to the
repository spring-boot-neo4j-example and you'll get the source code
I'm about to walk you through here in
this video example of Spring Boot. So I'm
going to toggle over to IntelliJ now and
first thing let's take a look at the
POM. This is a pretty simple Spring Boot
POM I am using the latest release of
Spring Boot at the time recording which
is 1.5.2, a lot of good stuff coming out
of the Spring guys right now
and what we want here on line 29 to 31
is to bring in the Spring Data
dependency for Neo4j
and this will enable Spring Data JPA for
Neo4j to bring everything up and it
includes everything that we're going to
need to connect to Neo4j and then you
can see there also
I'm bringing in the Spring Boot Starter
for good old Thymeleaf on the Spring
Boot Starter for web components and then
finally the test which I don't have a
test which is very bad of me. But this is
just a little working example to look at
connecting to Neo4j so I only have one
domain class here and that is the
Product class and simple POJO just like
if we were working with JPA but we're
not but it is a simple POJO and you can
see the annotation there on line 11 NodeEntity and this kind of works like the
JPA Entity tag but specific to Neo4j. No unique list there and then on line
14 the other important thing is the
GraphId so this is what the idea that object
that's going to get persisted into Neo4j. So that is going to get picked up by a
Spring Data repository so under
repositories I have the Product
Repository and you can see this is a
special flavor, it is the Graph
Repository and this is going to give us
basic CRUD operations so it looks a lot
like the CrudRepository out of
regular Spring Data so a little bit
different but looks pretty much the same
to me to be honest but the important
part here to remember is when you're
dealing with Spring Data we are going to
provide the interface so we are
providing the interface of Product
Repository and using Java generics to
pass on Product and what Spring Data
for Neo4j it is going to do is provide
us an implementation of that repository
at runtime. So makes our lives as
developers a lot easier because we don't
have to write all that boilerplate code
to get stuff in and out of Neo4j. Now
you'll also notice that an application.properties to connect to Neo4j, I've
got some basic connection information
there to set up the username, password and
this is all to my local Neo4j instance
which just happens to be running in a
Docker container which is real cool
stuff but that is the configuration for
my Neo4j database running locally the
port 7474 is kind of standard stuff for
Neo4j so the next thing i want to look
at is we have a ProductRepository and
then I've set up a ProductService and
this is a simple interface giving me
CRUD type operations over Product. I'm
going to set off my controller and then
here's my implementation and we can see
that I'm wiring in the Product
Repository. See that's declared on line
19 and then on line 23 to
25 you can see that I have specified a
constructor so we are doing dependency
injection by constructor there and we
are going to wire in the Product
Repository and then I also do have a
type converter so that is taking in the
ProductForm, show you that real quick
you can see that this looks a lot like
the Product domain class but this is
essentially a command object or some
people like to call it a backing bean to
the the form for when we're adding
products. And all this gets wired into my
ProductController so this is a Spring
MVC controller, kind of standard stuff
here for Spring MVC, and into the
controller
he gets injected in my ProductService
and also a convertor
for ProductForm. So in this example here
on the controller i am using setter
based dependency injection just to
showing you two different examples of
their technically constructor based
injection. It is probably preferred but in
the world of Spring you can do either
and then finally between line 41 down
to 81 you can see I have the different
methods mapped out for my Spring MVC
controller. Now this is all backed up
with Thymeleaf templates so my default view
is going to be the list view so it's
going to expect a list of products and
then it's also going to have a link
displayed for new products. I'm not going
to get into all the Thymeleaf particulars
in this demonstration. I do have a whole
course on Thymeleaf if you want really
to take a deep dive on utilizing Thymeleaf, it's a pretty cool template link
technology. Now here's ProductForm you'll be seeing
some demonstrations of this and then the
show template as well, so these are going
to be used to show the data. So like I
said I do have a Neo4j running inside a
Docker container, I am going to start the
application right now. I'm just going to
run over in IntelliJ and we will see Spring Boot
does start up pretty quick, not a lot in
this and it is running on 8080. So I'm
going to toggle over to Chrome now and
do a quick refresh and I'm not
initializing the database at all so I
can just bring in a simple product here
and say some URL, I'm not doing any data
validation, this is just a really really
simple example and we can see that it
did take it now if I come back here I
can see that the product has been listed
I can do another product, let's just do asdf, you can see that I now have
Product ID too and I can go back to list and we can
see that I have two products in there, I
can also go in and edit them so I'll do
www there, just on the URL and we can see that
that data has persisted. Now one thing
that's neat about Neo4j, at least in
the Docker image you do get a neat
little web application so you come out
here to take a look at the database and you
can see that I now have a Product and you
can see here's my two little nodes, no
relationship between them but I do have
two objects persisted out in Neo4j. So
this is a kind of a cool little console,
the graphing stuff is quite
significantly different from relational
database but Neo4j is definitely a cool
technology and just as a reminder, if you
want to have the complete source code
just again it's out on GitHub springframeworkguru
/spring-boot-neo4j-example